- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Preaching Clinic]]
	- Tips
		- Wait for God's Leading
		- Filter, Filter, Filter
		- Be Relational to Make it Relate-able
		- Stop Resisting, Start Responding
		- Preaching is Leading.
- [[Authors]]
	- Jack Swindle
	- John Bevere
	  collapsed:: true
- [[S/Graduation/Life Ambassador]]
  collapsed:: true
	- Good morning po sa ating lahat. I'm Mark Lester Roque from Church of God Echauge, Isabela. At the moment, nagsisilbi po ako as the Relationship department head ng aming lokal na simbahan.
	- My dream for my local church is for it to both grow in number and to grow in our relationship as a church. And through this Life Ambassador program, ako po ay na-inspire na abutin o i-pursue ang pangarap na ito. Natutunan ko sa mga nakaraang araw ang importance of having the right knowledge, the right mindset, being in the right ministry and the having right heart.
	- First, having the right knowledge. This program taught me so many things about the church. It's history, the standards, and the its culture. At the same time, natuto rin ako ng mga practical strategies and first hand wisdom from different coaches, na pwedeng ma-i-apply sa aming church upang makatulong abutin ang aming vision.
	- Second, having the right mindset. Importante ang pagkakaroon ng shared vision with my pastor. Focus on the vision. Pagkakaroon ng initiative to do kung ano ang kailangan sa church. Willingness to be a sacrifice and to sacrifice for the ministry because the measure of our ministry is sacrifice. To endure, because enacting change requires not just time, but a whole lot of it. And to have courage to admit failure and to learn from it.
	- Pangatlo, being in the right ministry. Kailangan nasa tamang ministry, find  where God is calling me. Find the right place that fits your passion and be trustworthy of it. Don't settle for the mediocre and pursue excellence.  To mentor the right person or persons na magiging katuwang sa ministry. And learn to share your passion to others.
	- Lastly, the right heart. To sum it up in a one liner, Love should be the motive of our ministry.
	- So BATCHMATES, continue to share the Greatest Love of all the we experienced from Jesus.
	- Thank you and God bless us all!
-