- [[Devotion/Personal]]
  collapsed:: true
	- Scripture: Luke 1:18-20
		- Today, the Lord continues to remind me through His word, removing all doubts and fears I have. He also reminds me that it is a process. The Lord call, but we must also undergo process and wait on God's perfect timing. Our responsibility is to hold fast to His word and be faithful steward to the ministries. Be faithful in serving on what ministry God has given you. He will be the one to tell us when, how, what, where to go. We are just His messenger, His vessel to bless His people. Blessed are His ways and His wisdom that surpasses human understanding. To Him belong all the Glory.
- > Perfection is achieved when there is nothing left to take away -- Antoine de Saint-Exupery #quote
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Preaching Clinic]] -- Ptr. AJ Velasco
  collapsed:: true
	- Tips
		- Use illustrations if necessary
		- Stay on Topic, Stay on the Scripture
		- Speak to the Mind, Slide to the Heart
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Drilling Life]] -- Dr. Anthony Velasco
  collapsed:: true
	- #### Lesson 7: Excellence
		- Ark of the Covenant => Mercy Seat
		- > Saan niyo ba gusto makita ang luho ng pastor niyo? Sa sarili o sa bahay ng Diyos? -- Dr. Anthony Velasco
		- When Striving for Excellence in church equipment
			- Step 1: Tamang Reference Point
			- Step 2: Presyo
			- Step 3: Tamang Tao to operate
			- Step 4: Tamang Skill/Excellent Skill
	- > Di pwedeng mas metikoloso ang isang pastor keysa sa tao -- Dr. Anthony Velasco
- > I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed. -- Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. #quote
- > Being a CHAMPION is not a title to carry but an IDENTITY to uphold. -- Keempol Mark Arnado Darap #quote
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Design of Discipleship]]
  collapsed:: true
	- #### Lesson 1: Model of Discipleship
		- **RAISE**
			- **R**ally CLDP/C2S Mentors Base
			- **A**ugment Mentees to become workers
			- **I**ntensify connection every Sunday
			- **S**uccession Planning for the next generation
			- **E**quip Workers to become leaders
		- Qualities of a Leader
			- Wisdom
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Passion
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Legwork
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Then As the leader grows older and become Weaker
			- He naturally loses his legwork while striving to maintain his Wisdom.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Prayerfully he tries to exert effort to regain his legwork by himself but get disappointed in the course of time.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- An so it may appear like he had lost his passion but this is not the case.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- The solution is to multiply himself so someday will do the legwork and the process continues...
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Church History]]
  collapsed:: true
	- 8,651,920 members all the world in 191 countries organized in 8 geographical regions
	- 8 Regions
		- Africa
		- Carribean
		- North America
		- Latin America
		- Asia Pacific
		- USA
		- Europe/Middle East
		- Asia Pacific
	- COG World Missions are the regions outside USA & Canada
	- **Church of God History**
		- Church of God Plity by Dr. Hollis Gause
		- Like a Mighty Army by Dr. Charles W. Conn
		- Church of God General Assembly Minutes
		- Parliamentary
		- **1896**
			- RJ Spurling Founded COG that came to be known as Christian Union at Camp Creek
		- **1902**
			- Name was changed from Christian Union to Holiness Church
		- **1903**
			- Prophet AJ Tomlinson joined the group of 20 at Cherokee county, North Carolina
		- **1906**
			- 1st Church General Assembly
		- **1907**
			- Changed from Holiness Church to Church of God
		- **1909**
			- AJ Tomlinson was recognized as General Moderator
		- **1910**
			- General Moderator was changed to General Overseer 1st Official Publication Church of God Evangel
		- **1940**
			- a division arose between those of differing views of sanctification
			- problem with Once saved, forever saved
			- Some held vigorously that it is an instantaneous or 'definite' work of grace, and others believed it to be continual and progressive
		- **1947**
			- Philippines
			- Frank Parado of Pittsburgh, Penn. who went to the Philippines in Feb. 1952 FR. Cortez was appointed to continue the work
		- **1948**
			- In the midst of this debate, the church saw the need for a clarifying statement of faith and adopted the 14 Declaration of Faith
	- **Lesson 1: Declaration of Faith**
		-