### Daily Metrics
collapsed:: true
	- [[Devotion/Personal]]
		- Scripture: Zechariah 6
		- Tags: #prophecy #messianic
		- Notes
			- **Command:** ==Diligently obey the word of God.== Until his coming back, obey his teachings, follow his example and live a life in obedience to his words.
			- **Promise:** The promise of the Messiah that would sit on the throne and reign forever. This is the hope that all christians hold on to. That time will come and the 2nd coming of the LORD Jesus Christ will be that He sits on the throne for all the world to see that He is Lord.
			- Sin to Avoid:
- ### Engineer's Daybook
	- #### Notes:
		-
	- #### Tasks:
		-
- ### Time-blocker
	- #### Morning:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			- :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2023-11-17 Fri 11:18:44]
			  :END:
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
	- #### Lunch:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 12:00
			-
		- 12:30
			-
	- #### Afternoon:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 1:00
			-
		- 1:30
			-
		- 2:00
			-
		- 2:30
			-
		- 3:00
			- START Math101
	- #### Evening:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			- END Math101
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			-
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
			-
- [[Notes/Preachers/Charles Haddon Spurgeon]]
	- ### Healing for the Wounded
	  collapsed:: true
		- Charles Haddon Spurgeon November 11, 1855
		  Scripture: Psalms 147:3
		  From: New Park Street Pulpit Volume 1
		  Healing for the Wounded #healing
		  > "He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds."—Psalm 147:3
		- The next verse finely declares the power of God. "He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them by their names." Perhaps there is nothing which gives us a nobler view of the greatness of God than a contemplation of the starry heavens. When by night we lift up our eyes and behold him who hath created all these things; when we remember that he bringeth out their host by number, calleth them all by their names, and that by the greatness of his power not one falleth, then indeed we adore a mighty God, and our soul naturally falls prostrate in reverential awe before the throne of him who leads the host of heaven, and marshals the stars in their armies. But the Psalmist has here placed another fact side by side with this wondrous act of God; he declares that the same God who leadeth the stars, who telleth the number of them, and calleth them by their names, healeth the broken in heart and bindeth up their wounds. The next time you rise to some idea of God, by viewing the starry floor of his magnificent temple above, strive to compel your contemplation to this thought, that the same mighty hand which rolls the stars along, puts liniments around the wounded heart; that the same being who spoke worlds into existence, and now impels those ponderous globes through their orbits, does in his mercy cheer the wounded, and heal the broken in heart.
		- We will not delay you by a preface, but will come at once to the two thoughts: first, here is a great ill—a broken heart; and secondly, a great mercy—"he healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds."
		- Man is a double being: he is composed of body and soul, and each of the portions of man may receive injury and hurt. The wounds of the body are extremely painful, and if they amount to a breaking of the frame the torture is singularly exquisite. Yet God has in his mercy provided means whereby wounds may be healed and injuries repaired. The soldier who retires from the battle-field, knows that he shall find a hand to extricate the shot, and certain ointments and liniments to heal his wounds. We very speedily care for bodily diseases; they are too painful to let us slumber in silence: and they soon urge us to seek a physician or a surgeon for our healing. Oh, if we were as much alive to the more serious wounds of our inner man; if we were as deeply sensible of spiritual injuries, how earnestly should we cry to "the Beloved Physician," and how soon should we prove his power to save. Stabbed in the most vital part by the hand of our original parent, and from head to foot disabled by our own sin, we yet remain insensible as steel, careless and unmoved, because, though our wounds are known they are not felt. We should count that soldier foolish, who would be more anxious to repair a broken helmet than an injured limb. Are not we even more to be condemned, when we give precedence to the perishing fabric of the body, and neglect the immortal soul? You, however, who have broken hearts, can no longer be insensible; you have felt too acutely to slumber in indifference. Your bleeding spirit cries for consolation: may my glorious Master give me a word in season for you. We intend to address you upon the important subject of broken hearts, and the great healing provided for them.
		- I. Let us commence with THE GREAT ILL—a broken heart. What is it? We reply, there are several forms of a broken heart. Some are what we shall call naturally broken, and some are spiritually so. We will occupy a moment by mentioning certain forms of this evil, naturally considered; and verily our task would be a dreary one, if we were called upon to witness one tithe of the misery endured by those who suffer from a broken heart.
		- There have been hearts broken by desertion. A wife has been neglected by her husband who was once the subject of her attachment, and whom even now she tenderly loves. Scorned and despised by the man who once lavished upon her every token of his affection, she has known what a broken heart means. A friend is forsaken by one upon whom he leaned, to whose very soul he was knit, so that their two hearts had grown into one; and he feels that his heart is broken, for the other half of himself is severed from him. When Ahithophel forsakes David, when the kind friend unto whom we have always told our sorrows betrays our confidence, the consequence may possibly be a broken heart. The desertion of a man by his fellows, the ingratitude of children to their parents, the unkindness of parents to their children, the betrayal of secrets by a comrade, the changeableness and fickleness of friends, with other modes of desertion which happen in this world, have brought about broken hearts. We know not a more fruitful source of broken hearts than disappointment in the objects of our affections—to find that we have been deceived where we have placed our confidence. It is not simply that we leaned upon a broken reed, and the reed has snapped—that were bad enough—but in the fall we fell upon a thorn which pierced our hearts to its center. Many have there been who have gone to their graves, not smitten by disease, not slain by the sword, but with a far direr wound that the sword could ever give, a more desperate death than poison could ever cause. May you never know such agony.
		- We have also seen hearts broken by bereavement. We have known tender wives who have laid their husbands in the tomb, and who have stood by the grave-side until their very heart did break for solitary anguish. We have seen parents bereaved of their beloved offspring one after another; and when they have been called to hear the solemn words, "Earth to earth, dust to dust, ashes to ashes," over the last of their children, they have turned away from the grave, bidding adieu to joy, longing for death, and abhorring life. To such the world becomes a prison, cheerless, cold, unutterably miserable. The owl and bittern seem alone to sympathize with them, an aught of joy in the wide world appears to be but intended as a mockery to their misery. Divine grace, however, can sustain them even here.
		- How frequently might this be supposed to occur to our brave countrymen engaged in the present war. Do not they feel, and feel acutely, the loss of their comrades? You will perhaps imagine that the slaughter and death around them prevent the tender feelings of nature. You are enough mistaken, if so you dream. The soldier's heart may never know fear, but it has not forgotten sympathy. The fearful struggle around renders it impossible to pay the usual court and homage at the gates of sorrow, but there is more of real grief ofttimes in the hurried midnight funeral than in the flaunting pageantry of your pompous processions. Were it in our power to walk among the tents, we should find abundant need to use the words of our
		- Oh, ye mourners! seek ye a balm for your wounds—let me proclaim it unto you. Ye are not ignorant of it, I trust, but let me apply that in which you already place your confidence. The God of heaven knows your sorrows, repair you to his throne, and tell your simple tale of woe. Then cast your burden on him, he will bear it—open your heart before him, he will heal it. Think not that you are beyond hope. You would be if there were no God of love and pity; but while Jehovah lives, the mourner need not despair.
		- Penury has also contributed its share to the number of the army of misery. Pinching want, a noble desire to walk erect, without the crutch of charity, and inability to obtain employment, have at times driven men to desperate measures. Many a goodly cedar hath withered for lack of moisture, and so hath many a man pined away beneath the deprivations of extreme poverty. Those who are blessed with sufficiency can scarcely guess the pain endured by the sons of want, especially if they have once been rich. Yet, oh! child of suffering, be thou patient, God has not passed thee over in his providence. Feeder of sparrows, he will also furnish you with what you need. Sit not down in despair; hope on, hope ever. Take up arms against a sea of troubles, and your opposition shall yet end your distresses. There is One who careth for you. One eye is fixed on you, even in the home of your destitution, one heart beats with pity for your woes, and a hand omnipotent shall yet stretch you out the needed help. The darkest cloud shall yet scatter itself in its season, the blackest gloom shall have its morning. He, if thou art one of his family, with bands of grace will bind up thy wounds, and heal thy broken heart.
		- Multiplied also are the cares where disappointment and defeat have crushed the spirits. The soldier fighting for his country may see the ranks broken, but he will not be broken in heart, so long as there remains a single hope for victory. His comrade reels behind him, and he himself is wounded, but with a shout he cries, "On! on!" and scales the ramparts. Sword in hand, still he goes, carrying terror among the foe, himself sustained by the prospect of victory. But let him once hear the shout of defeat where he hoped for triumph; let him know that the banner is stained in the earth, that the eagle has been snatched from the standard; let him once hear it said, "They fly, they fly!" let him see the officers and soldiers flying in confusion; let him be well assured that the most heroic courage and the most desperate valor are of no avail, then his heart bursteth under a sense of dishonor, and he is almost content to die because the honor of his country has been tarnished, and her glory has been stained in the dust. Of this, the soldiers of Britain know but little—may they speedily carve out a peace for us with their victorious swords! Truly, in the great conflict of life we can bear any thing but defeat. Toils on toils would we endure to climb a summit, but if we must die ere we reach it, that were a brokenness of heart indeed. To accomplish the object on which we have set our minds, we would spend our very heart's blood; but once let us see that our life's purpose is not to be accomplished; let us, when we hope to grasp the crown, see that it is withdrawn, or other hands have seized it, then cometh brokenness of heart. But let us remember, whether we have been broken in heart by penury or by defeat, that there is a hand which "bindeth up the broken in heart, and healeth all their wounds;" that even these natural breakings are regarded by Jehovah, who, in the plenitude of his mercy, giveth a balm for every wound to every one of his people. We need not ask, "Is there no balm in Gilead? is there no physician there?" There is a balm, there is a physician who can heal all these natural wounds, who can give joy to the troubled countenance, take the furrow from the brow, wipe the tear from the eye, remove the agitation from the bosom, and calm the heart now swelling with grief; for he "healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds."
		- But all that we have mentioned of woe and sorrow which the natural heart endures, is not sufficient to explain our text. The heart broken, not by distress or disappointment, but on account of sin, is the heart which God peculiarly delights to heal. All other sufferings may find a fearful center in one breast, and yet the subject of them may be unpardoned and unsaved; but if the heart be broken by the Holy Ghost for sin, salvation will be its ultimate issue, and heaven its result. At the time of regeneration, the soul is subject to an inward work, causing at the time considerable suffering. This suffering does not continue after the soul has learned the preciousness of a Saviour's blood; but while it lasts it produces an effect which is never forgotten in after life. Let none suppose that the pains we are about to describe are the constant companions of an heir of heaven during his entire existence. They are like the torture of a great drunkard at the time of his reformation, rendered needful, not by the reformation, but by his old habits. So this broken heart is felt at the time of that change of which the Bible speaks, when it says: "Except a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God." The fruit of the Spirit is afterwards joy and peace; but for a season we must, if saved, endure much mental agony.
		- Are any of you at the present moment disturbed in mind, and vexed in spirit, because you have violated the commands of God? And are you anxious to know whether these feelings are tokens of genuine brokenness and contrition? Hear me, then, while I briefly furnish you with tests whereby you may discern the truth and value of your repentance.
			- 1. We can not conceive it possible that you are broken in heart if the pleasures of the world are your delight. We may consent to call you amiable, estimable, and honorable, even should you mix somewhat in the amusements of life; but it would be a treason to your common sense to tell you that such things are consistent with a broken heart. Will any venture to assert that you gay reveler has a broken heart? Would he not consider it an insult should you suggest it? Does the libidinous song now defiling the ear proceed from the lips of a broken-hearted sinner? Can the fountain, when filled with sorrow, send forth such streams as these? No, my friends; the wanton, the libidinous, the rioting, and the profane, are too wise to lay claim to the title of broken-hearted persons, seeing that their claim would be palpably absurd. They scorn the name, as mean and paltry, unworthy of a man who loves free living, and counts religion cant.
			- But should there be one of you so entirely deceived by the evil spirit as to think yourself a partaker in the promises, while you are living in the lusts of the flesh, let me solemnly warn you of your error. He who sincerely repents of sin will hate it, and find no pleasure in it; and during the season when his heart is broken, he will loathe, even to detestation, the very approach of evil. The song of mirth will then be as a dirge in his ear. "As he that poureth vinegar upon niter, so is he that singeth songs to a sad heart." If the man who makes merry with sin be broken-hearted, he must be a prince of hypocrites, for he feigns to be worse than he is. We know right well that the wounded spirit requires other cordials than this world can afford. A soul disturbed by guilt must be lulled to a peaceful rest by other music than carnal pleasures can afford it. The tavern, the house of vice, and the society of the profligate, are no more to be endured by a contrite soul than the jostling of a crowd by a wounded man.
			- 2. Again, we will not for one moment allow that a self-righteous man can have a broken heart. Ask him to pray, and he thanks God that he is every way correct. What need has he to weep because of the iniquity of his life? for he firmly believes himself to be well-deserving, and far enough removed from guilt. He has attended his religious duties; he is exceedingly strict in the form of his devotions; or if he cares not for such things, he is, at any rate, quite as good as those who do. He was never in bondage to any man, but can look to heaven without a tear for his sin. Do not conceive that I am painting an imaginary case, for there are unfortunately too many of these proud, self-exalting men. Will they be angry with me when I tell them that they are no nearer heaven than those whom we reproved a few moments ago? or will they not be equally moved to wrath if I were so much as to hint that they need to be broken in heart for their sin? Nevertheless, such is the case; and Pharisees shall one day learn with terror, that self -righteousness is hateful to God.
			       But what is a broken heart? I say, first, that a broken heart implies a very deep and poignant sorrow on account of sin. A heart broken—conceive of that. If you could look within and see every thing going on in this great mystery called man, you would marvel at the wonders thereof; but how much more astonished would you be to see its heart not merely divided in twain, but split into atoms. You would exclaim, "What misery must have done this! What a heavy blow must have fallen here!" By nature the heart is of one solid piece, hard as a nether millstone; but when God smites it, it is broken to pieces in deep suffering. Some will understand me when I describe the state of the man who is feeling a sorrow for sin. In the morning he bends his knee in prayer, but he feels afraid to pray. He thinks it is blasphemy for him to venture near God's throne; and when he does pray at all, he rises with the thought: "God can not hear me, for he heareth not sinners." He goes about his business, and is, perhaps, a little diverted; but at every interval the same black thoughts roll upon him: "Thou art condemned already." Mark his person and appearance. A melancholy has rested upon him. At night he goes home, but there is little enjoyment for him in the household. He may smile, but his smile ill conceals the grief which lurks underneath. When again he bends the knee, he fears the shadows of the night; he dreads to be on his bed, lest it should be his tomb; and if he lies awake, he thinks of death, the second death, damnation, and destruction; or if he dreams, he dreams of demons, and flames of hell. He wakes again, and almost feels the torture of which he dreamed. He wishes in the morning it were evening, and at evening it were light. "I loathe my daily food," says he: "I care for nothing; for I have not Christ. I have not mercy, I have not peace." He has set off running on the road to heaven, and he puts his fingers in his ears, and will hear of nothing else. Tell him of a ball or concert!—it is nothing to him. He can enjoy nothing. You might put him in a heaven, and it would be a hell to him. Not the chants of the redeemed, not the hallelujahs of the glorified, not the hymns of flaming cherubs, would charm woe out of this man, so long as he is the subject of a broken heart. Now, I do not say that all must have the same amount of suffering before they arrive at heaven. I am speaking of some who have this especial misery of heart on account of sin. They are utterly miserable. As Bunyan has said: "They are considerably tumbled up and down in their souls." And conceive, that "as the Lord their God liveth, there is but a step between themselves and eternal death." Oh, blessings on the Lord forever! if any of you are in that condition, here is the mercy! Though this wound be not provided for in earthly pharmacy, though there be found no physician who can heal it, yet "he healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds." It is a blessing to have a broken heart at all.
			- Again, when a man has a broken heart, he not only feels sorrow for sin, but he feel himself utterly unable to get rid of it. He who believes himself able to save himself has never known the meaning of a broken heart. Those who imagine that reformation can atone for the past, or secure righteousness for the future, are not yet savingly brought to know themselves. No, my friends, we must be humbled in the dust, and made to look for all in Christ, or else we shall be deceived after all. But are you driven out of yourself; are you like the wounded soldier crying for some one else to carry you to the hospital of mercy, and longing for the aid of a mightier than yourself? then be of good cheer, there shall be found a great deliverance for you. So long as you trust in ceremonies, prayers, or good works, you shall not fine eternal grace; but when stripped of all strength and power, you shall gain a glorious salvation in the Lord Jesus. If morality can join the pieces of a broken heart, the cement shall soon cease to bind, and the man shall again be as vile as ever. We must have a new heart and a right spirit, or vain will be all our hopes.
			- Need I give any other description of the character I desire to comfort. I trust you are discovered. Oh! my poor brother, I grieve to see thee in distress, but there is pardon through Jesus—there is forgiveness even for thee. What though your sins lie like a millstone on your shoulder, they shall not sink you down to hell. Arise! He, my gracious Lord, calleth thee. Throw thyself at his feet, and lose thy griefs in his loving and cheering words. Thou art saved if thou canst say,
			  "A guilty, weak, and helpless worm,
			  On Christ's kind arms I fall;
			  He is my strength and righteousness,
			  My Jesus, and my all."
		- II. We have spoken a long time on the great ill of a broken heart; our second thought will be the GREAT MERCY—"He healeth the broken in heart."
		- First, he only does it. Men may alleviate suffering, they may console the afflicted and cheer the distressed; but they can not heal the broken in heart, nor bind up their wounds. It is not human eloquence, or mortal wisdom; it is not the oration of an Apollos, nor the wondrous words of a prince of preachers; it is the "still small voice " of God which alone confers the "peace which passeth all understanding." The binding of the heart is a thing done immediately by God, ofttimes without any instrumentality whatever; and when instrumentality is used, it is always in such a way that the man does not extol the instrument, but renders grateful homage to God. In breaking hearts, God uses man continually; repeated fiery sermons, and terrible denunciations do break men's hearts; but you will bear me witness when your hearts were healed God only did it. You value the minister that broke you heart; but it is not often that we ascribe the healing to any instrumentality whatever. The act of justification is generally apart from all means: God only does it. I know not the man who uttered the words that were the means of relieving my heart: "Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth." I do not recollect what he said in the sermon, and I am sure I do not care to know. I found Jesus there and then, and that was enough for me. When you get your wounds healed, even under a minister, it seems as if it were not the minister who spoke; you never heard him speak like it in all you life before. You say, "I have often heard him with pleasure, but he has outdone himself; before, he spoke to my ear, but now, to my heart. We are some of us rejoicing in the liberty of Christ, and walking in all the joy of the Spirit; but it is to God we owe our deliverance, and we are grateful neither to man nor book, so much as to the great Physician who has taken pity on us. O that Jesus would walk through this Bethesda now. O, poor, sick dying man! does guilt weigh heavy on thy soul, turn not to any helper, save to him that sitteth on the throne.
		- Then he only can do it. I defy any of my brethren to bind up a broken heart. I have often labored to do it, but could never effect it. I have said a word to console the mourner, but I have felt that I have done but little, or have perhaps put the wrong mixture in the cup. He only can do it. Some of you seek mercy through baptism, or the Lord's Supper, or regular attendance at the house of prayer. Some of you, again, have certain forms and observances to which you attach saving value. As the Lord liveth, none of these things bind up the broken in heart apart from the Holy Spirit; they are empty wind and air; you may have them and be lost. You can have no peace and comfort unless you have immediate dealings with God, who alone, as the great Physician, healeth the broken in heart. Ah! there are some of you who go to your ministers with broken hearts, and say, "What shall I do?" I have heard of a preacher who told his anxious hearer, "You are getting melancholy; you had better go to such and such a place of amusement; you are getting too dreary and melancholy by half." O, to think of a nurse in a hospital administering poison, when she ought to be giving the true medicine! If he deserves to be hung who mixes poison with his drugs, how much more guilty is that man who tells a soul to seek for happiness where there is none, who sends it to a carnal world for joy, when there is none to be found except in God.
		- Then again, God only may do it. Suppose we could heal your broken heart, it would be good for nothing. I do beseech the Lord that I may never get a broken heart healed, except it is by God. A truly-convinced sinner will always rather keep his heart broken than have it healed wrongly. I ask you, who are suffering, whether you would not rather keep your broken heart as it is, than allow a bad physician to cure it for you, and so deceive you, and send you to hell at last? I know your cry is, "Lord, let me know the worst of my case; use the lancet; do not be afraid of hurting me; let me feel it all; cut the proud-flesh away rather than let it remain." But there are not a few who get their wounds glossed over by some pretended good works or duties. O, my hearer, let no man deceive you! Be not content with a name to live while you are really dead. Bad money may pass on earth, but genuine gold alone will be received in heaven. Can you abide the fire?
		- In vain your presumption when God shall come to examine you; you will not pass muster unless you have had a real healing from his hand. It is easy enough to get religious notions and fancy yourself safe, but a real saving work is the work of God, and God alone. Seek not to the priest; he may console, but it is by deluding you. Seek not to your own self; for you may soothe yourself into the sleep of perdition. See that thine heart be washed in the blood of Jesus; be careful that the Holy Spirit has his temple in it; and may God, of his great and sovereign grace, look to thee that thou deceivest not thyself.
		- But next, God will do it. That is a sweet thought. "He healeth the broken in heart;" he WILL do it. Nobody else can; nobody else may; but he WILL. Is thy heart broken? He WILL heal it; he is sure to heal it; for it is written—and it can never be altered, for what was true three thousand years ago, is true now—"he healeth the broken in heart." Did Saul of Tarsus rejoice after three days of blindness? Yes, and you shall be delivered also. O, it is a theme for eternal gratitude, that the same God who in his loftiness and omnipotence stooped down in olden times to soothe, cherish, relieve, and bless the mourner, is even now taking his journeys of mercy among the penitent sons of men. O, I beseech him to come where thou art sitting, and put his hand inside thy soul, and if he finds there a broken heart to bind it up. Poor sinner, breathe thy wish to him; let thy sigh come before him, for "he healeth the broken in heart." There thou liest wounded on the plain. "Is there no physician?" thou criest; "is there none?" Around thee lie thy fellow-sufferers, but they are helpless as thyself. Thy mournful cry cometh back without an answer, and space alone hears thy groan. Ah! the battle-field of sin has one kind visitor; it is not abandoned to the vultures of remorse and despair. I hear footsteps approaching; they are the gentle footsteps of Jehovah. In his hands there are no thunders, in his eyes no anger, on his lips no threatening. See how he bows himself over the mangled heart! Hear how he speaks! "Come, now, and let us reason together," saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool." And if the patient dreads to look in the face of the mighty being who addresses him, the same loving mouth whispers, "I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions, for my names sake." See how he washes every wound with sacred water from the side of Jesus; mark how he spreads the ointment of forgiving grace, and binds around each wound the fair white linen, which is the righteousness of saints. Doth the mourner faint under the operation? he puts a cordial to his lips, exclaiming, "I have loved thee with an everlasting love." Yes, it is true—most true—neither dream nor fiction, "HE HEALETH THE BROKEN IN HEART, AND BINDETH UP THEIR WOUNDS."
		- How condescending is the Lord of heaven, thus to visit poor forlorn man. The queen has kindly visited the hospitals of our soldiers to cheer, by her royal words, her loyal defenders, by this she has done herself honor, and her soldiers love her for it. But when the God of the whole earth, the infinite Creator, stoops to become a servant to his own creatures, can you conceive the majestic condescension which bows itself in mercy over the miserable heart, and with loving finger closes the gaping wounds of the spirit. Oh, sin-sick sinner! the King of heaven will not despise thee, but thou too shalt find him thy Comforter, who healeth all thy diseases. Mark, moreover, how tenderly he does it. You remember that passage in the Psalms: "Loving kindness and tendermercies." God's mercies are "tender mercies;" when he undertakes to bind up the broken in heart, he always uses the softest liniment. He is not like your army surgeon, who hurries along and says "A leg off here, an arm off there;" but he comes gently and sympathizingly. He does not use roughness with us; but with downy fingers he putteth the wound together, and layeth the plaster on; yea, he doth it in such a soft and winning way, that we are full of wonder to think he could be so kind to such unworthy ones.
		- Then he does it securely, so that the wound can not open again. If he puts on his plaster, it is heaven's court-plaster, and it never fails. If he heals, he heals effectually. No man who is once saved of God shall ever be lost. If we receive mercy by faith, we shall never lose it. When God heals once, he heals forever. Although some who teach false doctrine do assert that children of God may be lost, they have no warrant in Scripture, nor in experience, for we know that he keepeth the saints. He who is once forgiven, can not be punished. He who is once regenerated, can not perish. He who is once healed, shall never find his soul sick unto death. Blessings on his name, some of us have felt his skill, and known his mighty power; and were our hearts broken now, we would not stop a moment, but go at once to his feet, and we would cry, "O thou that bindest the broken in heart, bind ours; thou that healest wounds, heal ours, we beseech thee."
		- And now, my hearers and readers, a parting word with you. Are you careless and ungodly? Permit your friend to speak with you. Is it true that after death there is a judgment? Do you believe that when you die, you will be called to stand before the bar of God? Do you know that there is a hell of eternal flame appointed for the wicked? Yes—you know and believe all this—and yet you are going down to hell thoughtless and unconcerned—you are living in constant and fearful jeopardy of your lives—without a friend on the other side the grave. Ah, how changed will your note be soon! You have turned away from rebuke, you have laughed at warning, but laughter will then give place to sighs, and your singing to yells of agony. Bethink thee, oh my brother man, ere thou dost again peril thy life. What wilt thou do if thy soul is required of thee? Canst thou endure the terrors of the Almighty? Canst thou dwell in everlasting burnings? Were thy bones of iron, and thy ribs of brass, the sight of the coming judgment would make thee tremble; forbear then to mock at religion, cease to blaspheme you Maker, for remember, you will soon meet him face to face, and how will you then account for your insults heaped upon his patient person? May the Lord yet humble thee before him.
		- But I am seeking the distressed one, and I am impatient to be the means of his comfort. It may be my words are now sounding in the ear of my weary wounded fellow-countrymen. You have been long time tossing on the bed of languishing, and the time for thought had been blessed to your soul by God. You are now feeling the guilt of your life, and are lamenting the sins of your conduct. You fear there is no hope of pardon, no prospect of forgiveness, and you tremble lest death should lead your guilty soul unforgiven before its Maker. Hear, then, the word of God. Thy pains for sins are God's work in thy soul. He woundeth thee that thou mayest seek him. He would not have showed thee thy sin if he did not intend to pardon. Thou art now a sinner, and Jesus came to save sinners, therefore he came to save thee; yea, he is saving thee now. These strivings of soul are the work of his mercy; there is love in every blow, and grace in every stripe. Believe, O troubled one, that he is able to save thee unto the uttermost, and thou shalt not believe in vain. Now, in the silence of your agony, look unto him who by his stripes healeth thee. Jesus Christ has suffered the penalty of thy sins, and has endured the wrath of God on thy behalf. See you, yonder crucified Man on Calvary, and mark thee that those drops of blood are falling for thee, those nailed hands are pierced for thee, and that opened side contains a heart within it, full of love to thee.
		  "None but Jesus! none but Jesus
		  Can do helpless sinners good!"
		- It is simple reliance on him which saves. The negro said, "Massa, I fall flat on de promise;" so if you fall flat on the promise of Jesus, you shall not find him fail you; he will bind up your heart, and make an end to the days of your mourning. We shall meet in heaven one day, to sing hallelujah to the condescending Lord; till then, may the God of all grace be our helper. Amen.
		  "The mighty God will not despise
		  The contrite heart for sacrifice;
		  The deep-fetched sigh, the secret groan,
		  Rises accepted to the throne.
		- He meets, with tokens of his grace,
		  The trembling lip, the blushing face;
		  His bowels yearn when sinners pray;
		  And mercy bears their sins away.
		  When filled with grief, o'erwhelmed with shame;
		  He, pitying, heals their broken frame;
		  He hears their sad complaints, and spies
		  His image in their weeping eyes."
	- ### The Gospel's Healing Power
	  collapsed:: true
		- tags: #healing
		- >“And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them.” — **Luke 5:17**.
		- LUKE, the writer of this gospel, was a physician, and therefore had a quick eye for cases of disease and instances of cure; you can trace throughout the whole of his gospel the hand of one who was skilled in surgery and medicine. From which I gather that whatever may be our calling, or in whatever art or science we may have attained proficiency, we should take care to use our knowledge for Christ; and that if we be called being physicians we may understand the work of the Lord Jesus all the better by what we see in our own work, and we may also do much for our Lord in real substantial usefulness among our patients. Let no man despise his calling; whatever instrument of usefulness God hath put into thine hand, consider that the Great Captain knew what weapon it were best for thee to wield. Covet not thy neighbour’s sword or spear, but use that which thy Lord hath given thee, and go forth to the battle of life to serve according to thy capacity. If thou be placed in this corner of the vineyard or that, consider that thou art in the best place for thyself, and the best place for thy Master; and do not always be judging what thy fellow servants ought to do in their place, nor what thou couldst do if thou wert in another place; but see what it is that thou canst do where thou art, and use such things as thou hast in glorifying thy Lord and Master. One is pleased to observe in the language of a true man how the man’s self shows itself. David frequently sings like one who had been a shepherd boy, and though a king he is not ashamed to own that he once grasped the crook. There is a manifest difference between the prophecies of Amos the herdsman and of Isaiah the royal seer. True men do not imitate one another, but each one, moved of God, speaketh according to his native bias, and according to the circumstances in which Providence has cast him. It was destructive to Egyptian art when the great men of the land framed articles of taste, and laws of statuary and of painting by which every sculptor must be bound, for then everything like freshness and originality was driven away; the proportions of every colossal statue and of every figure upon the wall were rigidly fixed, and then the glory and excellence of art vanished from the land. To do the same in religion is even more unwise; to say, “Ye shall all speak after one fashion, and ye all shall conform to this manner of talk and life,” is folly at its height. Let each man speak after his own manner, every man in his own order, each quickened soul bringing out its own individuality, and seeking in that individuality to magnify God and to show forth the riches of his grace. These remarks were suggested by the abundant record of cures in this chapter and elsewhere in Luke’s gospel. Luke does not write like John, nor copy the style of Matthew; he writes not as a fisherman or a publican, but as a physician. Luke did not cease to be Luke when he was called by grace, but he was the same man elevated and refined, and taught to consecrate to noblest ends the gifts which he had acquired in his earthly calling; he was a physician before, and he became “the beloved physician” after his conversion.
		- I. The text, as we read it, suggests in the first place, that THE POWER OF CHRIST IN THE GOSPEL IS MAINLY A POWER TO HEAL. “The power of the Lord was present to heal them.” The power of the gospel, of which Christ is the sum and substance, is a healing power. My brethren, when Christ came on earth he might have come with destroying power. Justly enough might God have sent his only Son with the armies of vengeance to destroy this rebellious world. But
		- > “Thy hands, dear Jesus, were not arm’d
		  > With and avenging rod;
		  > No hard commission to perform,
		  > The vengeance of a God.
		  > But all was mercy, all was mild,
		  > And wrath forsook the throne,
		  > When Christ all was mercy, all was mild,
		  > And brough salvation down."
		- “I have not come,” said he, “to destroy men’s lives, but to save them.” Elias calls fire from heaven upon the captains of fifties, and their fifties, so that they are utterly consumed; but Christ brings fire from heaven for quite another purpose, namely, that by its power men might be saved from the wrath to come. The gospel is not intended to be a power to destroy. “God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved.” And if that gospel be made a savour of death unto death unto any, it is not on account of its own intrinsic qualities or design, but because of the perversity and wickedness of the human heart. If men perish by the gospel of life, it is because they make that to be a stumbling-stone which was meant to be a foundation.
		- The gospel does not even come into the world merely to reveal disease. It is true it does discover, detect, and describe the maladies of fallen man. One of the clearest exposures of man’s fallen estate is the gospel of the grace of God; but it is rather the design of the law than of the gospel to discover to man his ruin. It is by the glare of Sinai’s lightnings that men tremblingly read the sentence of condemnation upon those who have broken God’s law: by the gentler light of Calvary they may read the same truth, and must read it; but this is not the main design of Calvary. Calvary is the place for the healing balm rather than for the lancet and the knife. The work of Jesus, our heavenly Physician, is not so much to point out disease as to indicate and to apply the remedy. Certain philosophers have made it their business and delight, with grim sardonic smile upon their faces, to put forth the finger and mark out human wickedness and weakness as a theme for ridicule and sarcasm. The philosophy of the Stoics, the wisdom of such men as Diogenes, was but a heartless unpitying showing up of human folly and sin; it knew no remedy, and cared not to search for one. They showed poor manhood to be besotted, befooled, debased, and depraved, and there they left it, passing by on the other side as the priest and Levite did with the wounded man in the parable. But Jesus came upon no such fruitless errand; he does convince the world of sin by his Spirit, but it is not to leave the world hopelessly despairing of its restoration, but to recover it by his power. Jesus bears with him power to heal; this is his honour and renown. He has the eagle’s eye to see our sicknesses, the lion’s heart bravely to encounter them, and the lady’s hand gently to apply the heavenly ointment; in him the three necessaries of a good surgeon meet in perfection.
		- Beloved, I trust you and I have known this power to heal in our own cases, and if it be so we know of a certainty that it is a divine power which comes from our Lord Jesus because he is most surely God. It is the sole prerogative of God to heal spiritual disease. Natural disease may be instrumentally healed by men, but even then the honour is to be given to God who giveth virtue unto medicine, and bestoweth power unto the human frame to cast off disease. But as for spiritual sicknesses, these remain with the great Physician alone; he claims it as his prerogative, “I kill and I make alive, I wound and I heal;” and one of the Lord’s choice titles is Jehovah Rophi, the Lord that healeth thee. “I will heal thee of thy wounds,” is a promise which could not come from the lip of man, but only from the mouth of the eternal God. On this account the psalmist cried unto the Lord, “O Lord, heal me, for my bones are sore vexed,” and again, “Heal my scul, for I have sinned against thee.” For this also, the godly praise the name of the Lord, saying, “He healeth all our diseases.” He who made man can heal man; he who was at first the creator of our nature can new create it. What a transcendent comfort it is that in the person of Jesus Christ of Nazareth we have Deity Incarnate! “In him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.” My soul, whatever thy disease may be, this great Physician can heal thee. If he be God, there can be no limit to his infinite power; if he be truly divine, there can be no boundary to the majesty of his might. Come then with the blind eye of thine understanding, come with the limping foot of thine energy, come with the maimed hand of thy faith, come just as thou art, for he who is God can certainly heal thee. None shall say unto the healing flood of his love, “Hitherto canst thou go and no further.” The utmost length of human sickness can be reached by this great Physician. Have thou confidence, O poor doubting heart! have thou unstaggering confidence in the Divine Healer.
		- Although our Lord Jesus healed as Divine, remember that he also possessed power to heal because of his being human. Is it not written, “The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed”? He used no other remedy in healing our sin-sickness but that of taking our sicknesses and infirmities upon himself. This is the one great cure-all. Blessed be the Son of God that the medicine, bitter as it is, is not for us to drink, but was all drained by himself. He took the terrible cup in Gethsemane, and drank it dry on our account. The sharp but healing cuts of the lancet are not made in our bodies, but he bore them in his own flesh. When the ploughers made deep furrows, those furrows were not upon the sinner’s shoulders, but upon the shoulders of the sinner’s Substitute. Didst ever hear, O Earth, of such a Physician as this? who heals by suffering himself, whose pains, and sorrows, and griefs, and pangs, and torments, and anguish, and death are the only medicine by which he removes the woes of men! Blessed Son of God, if I trust thee, seeing that thou art Divine, how will I love thee! how will I cling to thee, seeing thou art human! With what gratitude will I look up to thy cross and view thee, while those blessed founts of health are streaming crimson floods, and while thy heart, the source of all spiritual sanity, is pouring forth a heavenly torrent, efficacious to wash the sinner from all his sicknesses! Come hither, all ye sin-sick ones, and behold the glorious Son of God, made in the likeness of human flesh, breathing out his life upon the cross! Come hither, ye that mourn for sin, ye who are palsied and diseased with iniquity! here is power, power still present in the dying Saviour to heal you, whatsoever your diseases may be. He healed all that had need of healing while he sojourned here, and the costly balm of his atonement has lost none of its power.
		- The power which dwelt in Christ to heal, coming from him as divine and human, was applicable, most eminently, to the removal of the guilt of sin. Reading this chapter through, one pauses with joy over that twentyfourth verse, "The Son of Man hath power upon earth to forgive sin.” Here, then, is one of the great Physician’s mightiest arts: he has power to forgive sin. While here he lived below, before the ransom had been paid, before the blood had been literally sprinkled on the mercy-seat, he had power to forgives in. Hath he not power to do it now that he hath died? Brethren, what power must dwell in him who to the utmost farthing has faithfully discharged the debts of his people! He has indeed power, seeing that he has finished transgression and made an end of sin. If ye doubt it, see him rising from the dead! behold him in ascending splendour raised to the right hand of God! hear him pleading before the Eternal Father, pointing to his wounds, urging the merit of his sacred passion! What power to forgive is here! “He hath ascended on high, and received gifts for men.” “He is exalted on high to give repentance and remission of sins.” At this moment, sinner, Christ has power to pardon, power to pardon thee, and millions such as thou art. He has nothing more to do to win thy pardon; all the atoning work is done. He can, in answer to thy tears, forgive thy sins to-day, and make thee know it. He can breathe into thy soul at this very moment a peace with God which passeth all understanding, which shall spring from perfect remission of thy manifold iniquities. Dost thou believe that? I trust thou believest it. Mayest thou experience now that the healing power of the gospel is power to forgive sin! Waste no time in applying to the Physician of souls, but hasten to him with words like these —
		- “Jesus! Master! hear my cry;
		- Save me, heal me with a word;
		- Fainting at thy feet I lie,
		- Thou my whisper’d plaint hast heard.”
		- This is not the only form of the healing power which dwells without measure in our glorious Lord. He heals the sorrow of sin. It is written, “He healeth the broken in heart and bindeth up their wounds.” When sin is really manifest to the conscience it is a most painful thing, and for the conscience to be effectually pacified is an unspeakable blessing. Sharper than a dagger in the heart, or an arrow piercing through the loins is conviction of sin. He that has ever smarted under the prickings of an awakened conscience well knows that there is no pain of body that can be compared to it. When crushed under the hand of God a man may form some idea of what the miseries of hell must be. Correspondingly joyous is the relief which Immanuel brings to us when he brings better balm than that of Gilead, and ministers Heaven’s infallible specific to a soul disease. When Jesus is received by faith, he lifts all our sorrow from us in a moment. One promise applied by his Spirit, one drop of his blood brought home to the conscience, and at once there is such a peace, so deep and profound that nothing can rival it. What the poet wrote concerning recovery from bodily sickness is doubly true of spiritual restoration.
		- “See the Man that long has tost
		- On the thorny bed of pain,
		- At length repair his vigour lost,
		- And breathe and walk again:
		- The meanest floweret of the vale,
		- The simplest note that swells the gale,
		- The common sun, the air, the skies,
		- To him are opening Paradise.”
		- God grant, that to you who fear his name the Sun of righteousness may arise with healing beneath his wings!
		- Jesus also heals the power of sin. Sin may be in your case, dear friend, so mighty, that like a whirlwind it hurries you away at its pleasure. You feel like the sere leaves which are driven by the tempest; you have scarce power to resist your passions; you have perhaps, yielded so long to certain forms of evil that now you are positively powerless in strife against them. Do not however despair; Christ can surely deliver you. The demonaic had such an energy of evil within him that he brake the chains and bands with which he had been bound, he cut himself with stones, and howled all night amidst the tombs; but when Jesus came near to him he was soon seen clothed and in his right mind, sitting meekly at the great Physician’s feet. And so wilt thou, poor captive of evil. Do not think that thou needst to be a drunkard, or that thy angry temper need always be thy master. Do not conceive that thou must always be a slave to lust, or led captive at the devil’s will. There is hope for thee, man, where Christ is, and though thy disease be of as long standing as thy very life, yet a word from the powerful lips of the Son of God can make even thee whole. The power of the gospel is a power to heal the guilt, the sorrow, and the influence of sin; Jesus Christ came into the world to destroy the works of the devil in all their forms.
		- It should not be forgotten that the Lord Jesus is able to heal us of our relapses. I have heard men say that a relapse is what the physician frequently fears more than the primary disease, and that there is frequently a period in the healing process when the virus of disease gathers renewed energy, and the physician feels that now and not at the first the true battle has to be fought. We have met with men who have professed conversion, and we trust were changed, who have gone back like the dog to his vomit, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. We have had to mourn over those in whom the change appeared to be great, but it was superficial, and soon the power of evil returned upon them. But, my backsliding hearer, Jesus is able to heal your backslidings. What a mercy that is! “I will heal their backslidings, I will love them freely, for mine anger is turned away from him.” What if thou be sevenfold more a child of hell than thou wast before, yet even now eternal mercy that drove out a legion of devils from one of old can drive them out of thee. The healing power of my Master is such, that if thou hast backslidden ever so far yet he saith unto thee, “Return! return! return.” There shall be more joy over thee, thou poor lost sheep, than over ninety and nine that went not astray. He shall be more glad to receive thee, thou wandering prodigal child, than he hath joy even over that righteous son who remained always in the father’s house.
		- To sum up much in little, my Master, as a physician, works cures very suddenly; he touches, and the deed is done at once. He works cures of all kinds. Such as have been the stumbling-stones of other physicians have been readily overcome by him. He never fails. He has not in his diary one single case that has overmatched his mighty power. He heals effectually, the disease never again reigns when he has once dethroned it. When he casteth the devil out of the man he shall not return. He healeth with his word even those who think that they cannot be healed. There is no hospital for incurables now as to souls, for incurables there are none. The Friend of sinners is “able to save unto the uttermost those that come unto God by him.” Cases of disease so putrid that men say, “Put them out of sight;” vice so detestable that the very mention of it makes the cheek of modesty to blush; such as these the master-hand of Immanuel can heal. With God nothing is impossible, and with the Son of God nothing is difficult. He can save the chief of sinners, and the vilest of the vile. In the highest conceivable degree the power of the gospel is power to heal, Come, poor sinner, and behold him who is able to heal thee of thy deadly wounds; come look upon him now and live.
		- “Raise to the cross thy tearful eyes,
		- Behold, the Prince of Glory dies;
		- He dies extended on the tree,
		- And sheds a sovereign balm for thee.”
		- II. A second remark arises from the text; THERE ARE SPECIAL PERIODS WHEN THE POWER TO HEAL IS MOST MANIFESTLY DISPLAYED. The verse before us says that on a certain day the power of the Lord was present to heal, by which I understand, not that Christ is not always God, not that he was ever unable to heal, but this, — that there were certain periods when he pleased to put forth his divine energy in the way of healing to an unusual degree. The sea is never empty; it is indeed always as full at one time as at another, but yet it is not always at flood. The sun is never dim , he shines with equal force at all hours, and yet it is not always day with us, nor do we always bask in the warmth of summer. Christ is fulness itself, but that fulness does not always overflow; he is able to heal, but he is not always engaged in healing. There are times when the power to save is more than usually manifest— times of refreshing, seasons of revival, days of visitation, acceptable days, days of salvation. Any student of the world’s history who has read it in the light of true religion will have observed that there have been favoured periods when the power of God has been peculiarly present to heal men. My solemn conviction is that we are living in such an era, that this present moment is one of the set times when God’s power is peculiarly manifest; I gather this from many signs, but even the text assists me in my belief. Observe that on the occasion mentioned in the text there was a great desire among the multitude to hear the ivord. In the opening of the chapter we read that they pressed upon our Lord by the sea. Further on we find them coming from all parts of the country in multitudes. Especial mention is made of doctors of the law and Pharisees, the last people to be impressed, who nevertheless, overcome by the common enthusiasm, were found mingling with the throng: we are told that the people thronged the house at such a rate that the palsied man could not be brought into the congregation except by the expedient of breaking through the roof. When God’s power is moving, there will be a corresponding motion among the people; they will long to hear when God’s power is with the speaker. Take it as a sign of grace when the houses dedicated to worship are full. Consider that the Lord is about to fill the net, when the fishes crowd around the boat. We cannot expect the gospel to be blessed to those who do not hear it, we may lawfully and properly expect it will be a blessing to those who have an intense anxiety to listen to it. At the present hour I see a religious awakening amongst the masses of London, not so great a one as we could desire, but still there it is, and we must be grateful for it. We shall not long have to put up with the pernicious nonsense of Puseyism, public opinion will aid us in putting it down. It has taken a long time to wake up our nation, but it will awaken after all. I think I see the tide of popular feeling turning in the right direction. Men are just now occupied about religious thought, and whether they think rightly or wrongly, there is more attention just now paid to religious truth than has been for many a day; and where ministers do but preach simply and lovingly the gospel of Christ at this moment they find no lack of hearers. This is a sure sign that the power of the Lord is present to heal.
		- Observe next that the healing power was conspicuously present when Christ was teaching. Note carefully the favoured hour, “when he was teaching in a certain place.” Jesus linked the healing with the teaching. It was so with the material healing, much more with the spiritual healing, for “faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God.” Brethren, is there not among our own brethren, of whom we can speak with the most certainty, more teaching of Christ now than there was. I am persuaded that the most of my brethren preach more faithfully and fully the simple truth of Christ Jesus than they once did. Teaching is returning to the pulpits. Now mark, dear hearer, whether thou be saved or not, if thou art present where Christ is fully preached, where he is lifted up, exalted, proclaimed, and commended to thee, thou art in a place where he also is present to heal; for is it not written, “I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me”?
		- A further sign of present power is found most clearly in the sick folk who were healed by Jesus. Now we know that in this very house not a Sunday passes without souls being converted. We have before our church meetings the cases of hundreds whom God has blessed by the simple telling of the story of the cross. This then is proof positive, that Christ being taught, and souls being blessed, he is in a remarkable manner present to heal.
		- One other thing must be noted, namely, that this particular time mentioned in the text was prefaced by a special season of prayer on the part of the principal actor in it. Did you notice it? He withdrew himself and prayed, and then the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Is it so that even with regard to Christ himself, the Lord and Giver of Life, in whom dwelleth the fulness of the Godhead, and who has the Spirit without measure, yet before that Spirit is publicly manifested in any high degree there must be a special retirement for fervent prayer? How plainly does this say to us that the church must pray if she would have the healing power! But, my brethren, we have prayed. There has been such prayer put up by this congregation as I believe was never excelled, even in apostolic times; and last Monday was a day of wrestling of such a kind that the blessing could not be withheld. I have almost ceased to ask further, I wait in joyful anticipation of the heavenly visitation. I come not forth to-day so much as a sower as a reaper. I believe that the fish are taken in the net, and that we have only to pull it to land. God grant the net may not break by reason of the multitude of fishes! ' For God is with us, and that of a truth in this house this day. Wonders of grace are being wrought; while we are yet speaking men are being inclined to look to Christ, while we are lifting him up tearful eyes are looking to him; and in many a heart there may be heard the cry, “I will arise and go to my Father.” Now all these signs meeting together, a desire to hear, a set time of private prayer, the teaching of the word, and the manifest blessing of souls under that word, I gather that we have arrived at this present moment at that state which is described in the text.
		- III. Passing on to a third thought, we observe, that WHEN THE POWER OF THE LORD IS PRESENT TO HEAL, IT MAY NOT BE SEEN IN ALL, BUT MAY BE SHOWN IN SPECIAL CASES AND NOT IN OTHERS. It is a melancholy reflection that men may be in the region of divine power, and yet not feel its operations. I have read this verse through a great many times with one object, I have tried, if I could, to make the text mean that the Pharisees and doctors of the law were present, and that the power of the Lord was present to heal them. But the text does not so teach us; the power of the Lord was not present to heal the doctors and Pharisees, for they were not healed. The word “them” agrees with the noun further back, according to the frequent usage of the New Testament by which the pronouns are not made to refer to the nearer noun, but to another more remote. The power of God was present to heal the sick, not to heal the doctors, nor the Pharisees; and yet how nearly they seem to have gained it, for had they but known their sickness, and been willing to confess their infirmity, there was power enough to have healed even them; but as it was, we do not find that one of them was healed — not so much as a single doctor of the law, or a Pharisee felt the power which was passing so near to them that they were amazed and staggered and fell to cavilling at it. Dear hearers, this very melancholy observation must be applied to some that are present now. You may be in the midst of this congregation, which is under remarkable visitations of God’s grace, and yet there may be no power present operating in your heart to heal you. You will observe that those who missed this grace were not the harlots; infamous as they were by character, they felt the power of the love of Jesus and entered into his kingdom. We do not find that this power was wanting among the publicans; we have an instance here of one of them who made a great feast in his house for Christ. Where then was the power lacking? Where was it unsought and unfelt? It was in the first place among the knowing people, the doctors of the law. These teachers knew too much to submit to be taught by the Great Rabbi. There is such a thing as knowing too much to know anything, and being too wise to be anything but a fool. The knowledge of the doctors was that which puffeth up, and not the knowledge which cometh from God. Ah, dear hearer, beware of head knowledge without heart knowledge; beware of being so orthodox as to set yourself up as a judge of the preacher, and to refuse to be obedient to the truth. Beware of saying, “Oh yes, yes, yes, yes, that is very applicable to So-and-so, and very well put.” Do not criticise but feel. It were better for you that you had been a common plough-boy, whistling at the plough, who never heard these things until to-day, and have now listened to them, and have received them in all their novelty, and power, and beauty for the first time; this were better for you than to have heard them till they ring in your ears like the bell which you have heard every Sabbath day, of whose monotony you are weary. Beware of going down to hell with a millstone of sound doctrine about your necks, for if ye will be damned you may as well perish knowing the truth as not knowing it. Nay, if you catch the formula and lay hold upon the creed, and imagine yourself to be teachers of others, it is even easier to perish in that state than it is if you came in to hear the Word untaught heretofore in its glad message. These were the knowing ones who had no power to be healed.
		- Those, moreover, who had a good opinion of themselves were left unblest. The Pharisees! no better people anywhere, from Dan to Beersheba, than the Pharisees, if you would take them upon their own reckoning. Observe with due respect their public character. Were they not most eminent? See the breadth of the borders of their garments! How visible were their phylacteries! How diligently did they wash their hands before they ate! How scrupulous about straining out gnats from their wine! How careful to tithe the anise, and mint, and cummin! Yet these were the people who obtained no blessing from Jesus. They were too good to be saved. How many people there are of this kind! “Well,” says one, “I know I never robbed anybody; I have brought up my family respectably, and conducted myself with such decorum that nobody could possibly find fault with me.” Just so, and you will not have Christ because you are whole, and have no need of a physician. “Ah!” says another, “surely if we do our duty to the best of our ability it will be all right with us.” If you think thus you will find that when you have done your duty to the best you can, you will have no part nor lot in a Saviour, because manifestly, on your own showing, you do not require one. The Lord Jesus will take your own showing, and will say, “I never knew you. How should I know you? You were never sick; you never needed me; you declared that you were whole, and you would not stoop to accept the salvation which I, the Saviour, came to bring.” Thus will Jesus speak to you who now proudly despise his grace.
		- Once again, the people who did not get the blessing were not only the knowing ones and the very good ones, but they were also the people who stood by. As one observes, they did not come to be preached at, they came for Christ to preach before them. That used to be the old style of sermon prefaces — “A sermon preached before the honourable or worshipful company of So-and-so.” Now that is the worst kind of preaching anywhere, preaching before people; preaching right at people is the only preaching worth hearing and worth uttering. But they did not come for Christ to operate upon them; they were not patients, they were visitors in the hospitals. Like visitors they went round to the beds and looked at the prescriptions put over the sick, and observed upon each case, and when the physician came in and began to exercise his art upon the sick, they stood by and criticised his treatment, imagining all the while that they were not sick themselves. If they had been lying on the bed sick they could have been healed, but they took only a superficial interest in the healing, for they came not to partake in it. Beware, my dear hearers, of going to places of worship merely to be lookers on. There will be no lookers on in heaven, and there will be no lookers on in hell. Take care that you do not play the looker on in the worship of God here. Every truth as spoken by God’s servants has a bearing upon you. If it be threatening, and you are in the gall of bitterness, it is yours, tremble under it! If it be the promise of divine love, then if you have no part in it, be afraid, be ashamed, be alarmed, and fly to Christ that you may partake in it. Those who get no blessing are those who suppose they do not particularly need it and stand by, having merely come to see and to be seen, but not to receive a cure.
		- Those who fell not the healing power sneered and cavilled. They said further down in the chapter, “Who can forgive sins but God only?” When a man gets no good out of the ministry, he is pretty sure to think there is no good in the ministry; and when he himself for want of stooping down to drink finds no water in the river, he concludes it is dry; whereas it is his own stubborn knee that will not bend, and his own wilful mouth that will not open to receive the gospel. But if they quarrel, if they raise questions, if they dispute, we know their breed, we understand the race to which they belong, and we know how Jesus said to them of old, “Ye generation of vipers, how shall ye escape the damnation of hell?” If any shall not escape, surely they shall not whose only hearing of the gospel is to make it the butt of their sarcasm and the object of their ridicule, who look derisively even at the cross itself with a dying Saviour upon it, and thrust their tongue into their cheek, and make jests and merriment of the agonies of the world’s Redeemer. Beware, lest you have those jests in your mouth on earth which you will have to digest in hell! Beware, lest your mockery return upon you at the last great day, when the words of Solomon shall be fulfilled, “Because I called and ye refused, I stretched out my hands and no man regarded, I also will mock at your calamity, I will laugh when your fear cometh.” There were persons then to whom the present power of Christ to heal was of no service whatever, there may be such now. Friend, art thou such an one?
		- IV. In the last place, I want Christian people here to observe that WHEN THE POWER OF CHRIST WAS PRESENT, IT CALLED FORTH THE ENERGY OF THOSE WHO WERE HIS FRIENDS TO WORK WHILE THAT POWER WAS MANIFEST.
		- My dear brethren, the members of this church especially, what I have to say is earnestly addressed to you. You will perceive that as soon as ever it was discovered that the power of healing was present, loving hearts desired to bring in others that they might experience it. Four persons took each a corner of the bed and brought in a palsied man who could not come of himself, and they let him down with much inconvenience through the roof. God is blessing the church now. Christian men and women, join together to pray for your friends who cannot or will not pray for themselves; and if you meet with any in deep distress, palsied with despair, who cannot lift the finger of faith, strive to bring them to hear the gospel, bring them where Christ is working miracles. If one of you cannot prevail to lay the case before the Lord, let two of you unite; if two should not be enough, let four blend their petitions; if four should not suffice, tell it to the church, and ask the whole to pray; but do strive to bring dying sinners where Christ is working spiritual miracles.
		- If you read further on in the chapter you will learn how to bring some persons to the Saviour who would never hear of him else. Levi made a great feast, for he thought to himself, “I should like Jesus to come and preach to the publicans. They are such great sinners, just such as I am; if I could but get them to hear him they might be converted. But,” he thought, “if I ask them they would say they could not afford to give up a day’s work, they will not care to listen to a sermon; so (said he) I will get them this way, I will invite them to my house to a feast; they will be sure to come then, and then I will ask Jesus to come and eat with them, and I know he will not let them go without saying a good word.” So you see he used arts as fowlers do when they are anxious to catch their prey. Now cannot you be as watchful and thoughtful in your generation as Levi was? Cannot you get the outcasts and the neglecters of the Sabbath to your own house or to anybody else’s house, and use means to bring them under the sound of God’s word? Why, if you have a few flowers in your back room, if it rains in the summer time, do not you always put them out in it? All the pots you put out in the garden to let them catch the shower. Do so with your friends, your neighbours, your children, your kinsfolk, while the rain of grace is dropping try to get them under the influence of it, and if they will not come by one means try another, only do get them where the power of the Lord is present, for perhaps Jesus may look upon them and they may look to him and may be healed.
		- And oh! let me say in closing, if they should not be saved the responsibility will not then rest with you, even as the responsibility this morning does not rest with me. We have proclaimed to you in this house many times that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. We have told you that the heavenly Father is willing to receive returning sinners, that he delights in mercy, that he is free to blot out sin. We have told you that the blood of Christ can make the blackest clean, that all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men. We have urged you to flee away like doves to Jesu’s wounds. The power of the Spirit of God has led many of you to come to him, and you are saved; but alas! there still remains a multitude who are unsaved still. Well, if you perish, it is not because Christ has not been taught in your streets. You will go down to hell, some of you, with the light shining on your eyelids, but with your eyes wilfully closed against it; you will perish with the voice of mercy ringing in your ears; and in hell you will be awful monuments to the justice of God, who will then say to you, “You sinned against light and knowledge, and against love and mercy.” If they perish who despised Moses' law, how shall ye escape if ye neglect so great salvation? May the Holy Spirit now with mighty energy apply the precious blood of Jesus to every hearer, and unto God shall be glory world without end. Amen.
		- “Blest Saviour, at thy feet I lie,
		- Here to receive a cure or die;
		- But grace forbids that painful fear,
		- Almighty grace, which triumphs here.
		- “Thou wilt withdraw the poison’d dart,
		- Bind up and heal the wounded heart;
		- With blooming health my face adorn,
		- And change the gloomy night to morn.”