- [[Devotion/Personal]]
  collapsed:: true
	- Scripture:: Exodus 5
	- Tags: #burning-bush #call #assurance
	- Notes:
		- Here the Lord calls for Moses after many years in exile. Moses already old, was tending to the sheep when saw the Burning Bush. The LORD asked Moses to sanctify himself before the LORD's holiness. Just like us, we cannot enter God's holiness because we will surely die. It is only by the blood of our LORD Jesus Christ, through His righteousness and grace that we are able to enter God's holy presence.
		- Like most of us, Moses questioned his ability to be of service. But God reminded him that it is not through our abilities and skills, but by the grace and power of God that we are to serve. God doesn't need skillful people, He uses ordinary people to show His glory and power. What we must do, is to be available and follow what His commands are. It is not by our might, but by His grace and glory. It is all about Him.
- [[Notes/Meeting]]
  id:: 654edd37-0455-4719-85ae-d3efbe46b5a0
	- relates-to:: [[Ignite Series]] 
	  tags:: #god-gifts #salvation #healing #peace #joy
	- Date: Nov. 11, 2023
	- Location: COG Echague
	- Participants: April, Hanzon, Oneza, Lester
	- #### Agenda: Ignite December Series
	- Minutes:
		- ## Exchange Gifts
			- ### Salvation x sin
				- #### Recommended Verse: Romans 5.8, 2 Cor. 5.17
					- Sonship
					- Deliverance
					- Service
					- Freedom
					- Faith
			- ### Healing x illness
				- #### Recommended Verse: 1 Peter 2.24, Isa 53.5
					- physical
					- emotional
					- spiritual
			- ### Peace x anxiety, troubles
				- #### Recommended Verse: Phi 4.6-7, Luke 2.14
					- comfort
					- hope
					- assurance
					- patience
			- ### Joy
				- Recommended Verse: Luk 2.9-10, John 15.10-11
	- Decisions:
		- Salvation - Hanzon
		- Healing - Lester
		- Peace - Oneza
		- Joy - April
	-
	-