- [[Devotion/Personal]]
  collapsed:: true
	- Psalms 1 #foundation
	  collapsed:: true
		- The Lord reminds me this morning to always rely on His word for guidance and direction. Plant your roots on His words. Dwell and seek His presence in my life. Study His words, make every effort to always go to His counsel. And as a promise to keep, the Lords says, that anyone who relies on Him is like a Tree. In whatever season, he remains rooted, nourished. In whatever He does he comes to maturity (excellence) for the Lord is with him.
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Life Application]] - Ptr. AJ Velasco
	- How do we achieve Born Again Pilipinas in our lifetime?
		- Basic Principle
			- Connect 1 soul outside the church.
			- Connect 1 soul inside the church.
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/The Power of Point]] -- Bro. Micas
	- [^1]Studies Show that people remember:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 10% hearing
		- 20% reading
		- 80% visuals
	- #### Basic Elements & Principles
	  collapsed:: true
		- #### Screen Size
		  collapsed:: true
			- Standard 4:3
			- Widescreen 16:9 (height: 7.5 in, width 13.3 in)
			- Important to know the size of the screen
		- #### Emphasis
		  collapsed:: true
			- *If you emphasize everything, you emphasize nothing*
			- Emphasis
				- #### Font Size
					- Verse heading **48pts**
					- Verse body **44pts**
					- Bible Translation **36pts** (be considerate of those who really read the Bible)
					- Superscript
					- Maximum Number of Lines per slide **8 Lines**
					- Source for outside bible should be placed either after the title or on the bottom of the slide
					- Number List Standard **Numbers size is 80% of text**
				- #### Fonts
					- Sans Serif - Typefaces with no fancy, decorative kicks and flicks on the end
						- for verse body
					- Serif - Typefaces with fancy, decorative kicks and flicks on the end
						- for titles
					- fonts have emotion
					- use cursive fonts sparingly
						- use it for emphasis of words for title
				- #### Vertical Spacing
					- Verse Body **Multiple at 1.1**
				- #### Background (BG) + Foreground (FG) Colors
					- Color Rule
						- 60 - 30 - 10
					- Choosing colors for your presentation
						- Light Background = dark text
						- Dark Background = light text
						- Choose the the right emotion of colors
				- Callouts
					- highlights of words and/or hebrew, greek words, translations
					- use curved arrow **8pts**
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Drilling Life]] -- Dr. Anthony Velasco
  collapsed:: true
	- > When you believe in a thing, believe in it all the way, implicitly and unquestionable. -- Walt Disney #quote
	- > Don't let money have the last say in your church, ang may last say ay Faith -- Dr. Anthony Velasco #quote
	- > You have to set the vision for the next generation. -- Dr. Anthony Velasco #quote
- [[Training/Life Institute/Life Ambassador/Ushering101]] -- Sis. Loty
  collapsed:: true
	- > Your Vibe attracts Your Tribe -- COG Dasma Ushering #quote
	- #### Training and Enhancement
		- Personal Development
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Hair
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Make-up
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Nails
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Tidy Shoes
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Proper Posture
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Greeting 101 **"The Spark"**
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Establish Eye Contact
			- Wear your best smile
				- - One of the most powerful message of positivity that we can share to others
			- Send lively greetings
				- - Spread the spirit of hospitality
	- Orientation for new Frontliners
		- **WAVE**
			- **W**orship
			- **A**ttitude
			- **V**alues
			- **E**quipping
	- Ushering Ministry
		- Born-Again Experience => Building Lasting Relationships => Beginning of a Leader => Be Equipped!
	- #### Recruitment and Connection
		- Connection Sunday
		- C2S Saturday Fellowship
		- Quarterly Teambuilding for Leaders
		- One major event for the ministry
		- WAVE Training
		- C2S 101 Training
		-
-
- Footnotes
	- [^1]: medium.com