### Engineer's Daybook
	- #### Notes:
		- [[Notes/Meeting/Zonal Men's Monthly]]
			- 06:26 PM : START
			- 06:27 PM : Devotion led by Ptr. Emerson de Belen
				- **Endurance (James 1:12)**
					- **Introduction**
						- Where do we need endurance?
							- Sports, Endurance Training and Activities, Family, Serving God
						- Biblical example of endurance
							- Job - remaining steadfast in the face of adversity
							- Joseph - trusting God's plan in the midst of betrayal and imprisonment
							- Paul - Persevering through hardships and persecution for the sake of the gospel
					- **Main Points**
						- Sources of Endurance
							- Trust in God's sovereignty and faithfulness
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
							- Through God's word and prayer
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
							- Relying on the Holy Spirit for guidance and empowerment
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
						- #+BEGIN_PINNED
						  Ang lakas nagmumula sa tuhod. Ang kalabaw malakas dahil laging lumuluhod. Sa umaga bago mag trabaho lumuluhod. Sa gabi bago matulog, lumuluhod. #imagery
						  #+END_PINNED
						- Purpose of Endurance
							- Building character and maturity
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
							- Strengthen our faith and trust in God
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
							- Serving as a witness to others
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
						- Practical steps to having endurance
							- Seek God's wisdom and guidance (Proverbs 2:6, James 1:5)
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
							- Surround yourself with supportive people (Ecc. 4:9-10, Isaiah 41:10)
							  logseq.order-list-type:: number
					- Conclusion
						- #+BEGIN_QUOTE
						  Life is Hard, but God provides
						  Life is Unfair, but God cares.
						  Life is unpredictable, but God guides.
						  Life is a challenge, but God sustains.
						  #+END_QUOTE
				- 06:52 PM : Meeting Proper
				- 06:53 PM : Zonal Men's Leader Update
					- iLEAD Open Doors 5:00 PM May 8, 2024
					- Zone 3 134 delegates
				- 07:24 PM : Jones 2 scheduled district fellowship
				-
					-
	- #### Tasks:
		-
- ### Time-blocker
	- #### Morning:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			- :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2023-11-17 Fri 11:18:44]
			  :END:
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
	- #### Lunch:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 12:00
			-
		- 12:30
			-
	- #### Afternoon:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 1:00
			-
		- 1:30
			-
		- 2:00
			-
		- 2:30
			-
		- 3:00
			-
		- 3:30
			-
		- 4:00
			-
		- 4:30
			-
		- 5:00
			-
		- 5:30
			-
	- #### Evening:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			-
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
			-