### Daily Metrics
collapsed:: true
	- TODO [[Devotion/Personal]]
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2024-01-05 Fri 10:06:28]--[2024-01-05 Fri 10:06:29] =>  00:00:01
	  :END:
		- Scripture: 2 Timothy 4
		- tags::
		- Notes
			- Command:
			- Promise:
			- Sin to Avoid:
	- TODO Physical Workout
- ### Engineer's Daybook
	- #### Notes:
		- [[Notes/Meeting/Zonal Board]]
			- Date: January 15, 2024
			- Venue: Minit, Echague
			- Time: 1:00 PM
			- Attendee:
				- Ptr. Edrian Dumlao
				- Ptr. Alex Salvador
				- Bro. Alex Gragasin
				- Ptr. JM Sabado
				- Ptr. Emerson de Belen
				- Ptr. Boyet Valiente
				- Ptr. Roger Almario
				- Ptr. Rexford Llanes
				- Ptr. Gener Cristobal
				- Bro. Hanzon Perez
				- Bro. Christian Carido
				- Bro. Lester Roque
			- Minutes:
				- 01:36 PM : Start of the meeting (opening remarks - zonal overseer)
				  :LOGBOOK:
				  CLOCK: [2024-01-15 Mon 13:27:03]
				  CLOCK: [2024-01-15 Mon 13:27:11]--[2024-01-15 Mon 13:27:15] =>  00:00:04
				  :END:
				- 01:38 PM : Start of Devotion - 1 Kings 7:13
				- 01:49 PM : Lessons:
					- a. Remember that you are the audience of One
						- - intrinsic motivation
							- #+BEGIN_QUOTE
							  When you are intrinsically motivated, you care about is the audience of God
							  #+END_QUOTE
							- Col. 3:23
					- b. Focus on being faithful even in little things
						- Story of the three brick layers
						- God is in the details
							- 9 chapters of Exodus are devoted to aesthetics of the tabernacle
							- id:: 65a4ca43-8508-48ff-adae-c3c9fdb80c3c
							  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
							  “For want of a nail, the shoe was lost.
							  For want of a shoe, the horse was lost.
							  For want of a horse, the rider was lost.
							  For want of a rider, the battle was lost.
							  For want of a battle, the kingdom was lost,
							  And all for the want of a horseshoe nail.” 
							  -- **Poor Richard's Almanack**
							  #+END_QUOTE
							- #+BEGIN_QUOTE
							  For want of an apprentice, the blacksmith was lost.
							  For want of a blacksmith, the shop was lost.
							  For want of a shop, the hammer was lost.
							  For want of hammer, the nail was lost.
							  For want of a nail, the shoe was lost.
							  For want of a shoe, the horse was lost.
							  For want of a horse, the rider was lost.
							  For want of a rider, the message was lost.
							  For want of a message, the battle was lost.
							  For want of a battle, the war was lost.
							  For want of a war, the kingdom was lost,
							  All for the want of an apprentice.
							  
							  Because s/he was an apprentice, the journeyman mechanic was highly skilled.
							  Because of the journeyman mechanic, the shop was also efficient, well-organized and stocked.
							  Because of the efficient, well-organized and stocked shop, the tools and parts were available.
							  Because of the tools and parts, the bolts were torqued by the highly skilled mechanic.
							  Because of the torqued bolts, the motor was aligned.
							  Because of the aligned motor, the equipment remained reliable.
							  Because of the reliable equipment, the production process was effective.
							  Because of the effective production process, the mission is possible.
							  Because of the shared commitment to the mission, the customer deliveries were on time.
							  Because of the on-time customer deliveries, market share was won.
							  Because of the added market share, the business of the company was victorious, All because of the apprentice.
							  **-- Poor Richard's Almanack 1758**
							  #+END_QUOTE
							- https://web.citadel.edu/root/images/commandant/assistant-commandant-leadership/for-the-want-of-a-nail.pdf
							- Luke 1:6
						- c. Do the best you can with what you have where you are
							- #+BEGIN_QUOTE
							  Be the best version of yourself.
							  #+END_QUOTE
							- **Spiritual Criticism Sandwich**
								- Top Layer (bread) = Grace
								- Middle Layer (filling) = Criticism
								- Bottom Layer (bread) = Grace
				- 02:25 PM : end of devotion
				- 02:26 PM : START of meeting proper
					- Czarimah Singson remains the Zonal Worship Head
					  Pastor Alex Salvador for Zonal Discipleship Head
					  Pastor Emerson de Belen for Zonal Outreach Head
				- 02:28 PM : Men's Zonal Leader Update
					- Total Registrants : 132 (inclusive of pastors)
					  NSAD : Balance 10,500 (7 persons)
					  February : Deadline of full payment, correction of names, sizes of t-shirt and jacket
					  Zonal Men's Ministry Meeting : last Sunday of January
				- 02:34 PM : Zonal Youth Board Presentation
					- Hanzon Perez for District Youth Head
					  LeadCon - youth leader, youth pastor/director, youth empowered local solid core (mar 14-7), (may 16-19), (jun 13-16) 7,200 ppax
					  march 7 slots, may 7 slots, june 14 slots
					  1st YE National Conference (apr 15-17, 2025) @Dasma Arena
					  1,950 - Registration only
					  Zonal Youth Camps in collaboration with Worship Department
					  2 nights and 1 day
					- YE starts at 13 years old
				- 03:13 PM : 20,000Php handed to Pastor JM Sabado for death donation
				- 03:35 PM : Snack time
				- 04:03 PM : Summary of youth board meeting
				  :LOGBOOK:
				  CLOCK: [2024-01-15 Mon 16:10:56]--[2024-01-15 Mon 16:10:57] =>  00:00:01
				  :END:
				- 04:17 PM : Ptr. Edrian Dumlao to Sinaoangan Norte
				- 04:30 PM : Continuous Improvement of Bible School
				- 04:31 PM : END of meeting
			- Decisions:
				- Zonal Outreach Head - Ptr. Emerson de Belen
				- Zonal Discipleship Head - Ptr. Alex Salvador
				- Zonal Youth Head - Bro. Hanzon Perez
				- Zonal Youth Camp Date: Oct. 31 - Nov. 1, 2024
				- Zonal Youth Camp Venue: Jones Municipal
				- LeadCon Slots allocations: March 14-17, 2024 2 jones, 1 ssad, 2 sid, nsad 2
				- LeadCon Delegates: SID (Hanzon Perez, victory norte tbd) NSAD (Jolina Tamundong, tbd) SSAD (Aj Agcaoili) JD (2 slots tbd)
	- #### Tasks
		- EDC
			- TODO Trashbag
			- TODO Projector
			- TODO Water
			- TODO Plastic Cups Dispensers
			-
		-
- ### Time-blocker
	- #### Morning:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			- :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2023-11-17 Fri 11:18:44]
			  :END:
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
	- #### Lunch:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 12:00
			-
		- 12:30
			-
	- #### Afternoon:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 1:00
			-
		- 1:30
			-
		- 2:00
			-
		- 2:30
			-
		- 3:00
			-
		- 3:30
			-
		- 4:00
			-
		- 4:30
			-
		- 5:00
			-
		- 5:30
			-
	- #### Evening:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			-
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
			-