### Daily Metrics
	- DONE [[Devotion/Personal]]
	  collapsed:: true
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2024-01-05 Fri 10:06:28]--[2024-01-05 Fri 10:06:29] =>  00:00:01
	  :END:
		- Scripture: Jeremiah 6
		- tags:: crossroad, turning-point, righteous-path, shallow-path, hypocrisy
		- Notes
			- Command:
			- Promise:
			- Sin to Avoid:
			  Here the word of the Lord reminds me to understand deeper his words. To keep his words not only in the mind and heart, but also in our actions. It is not easy to love, listen and to obey the word of the Lord. It is offensive at most, but the Lord tells us that if we really love him, we will love his words even if it is offensive and learn from it. Applying it to our daily lives not just information stored in our hearts and mind.
			  And not just for me, but also to the people of the church, and to the people who are not yet able to hear yet the good news of our Lord. A great army is coming together with the Lord in the end days. Tell them to good news of the Lord so that they may be saved through it if they really accept and live it. The coming destruction is by no means merciful, but of full cruelness. No one will be spared, but only those who accept and believe in the one true savior.
	- TODO Physical Workout
- ### Engineer's Daybook
	- #### Notes:
		- [[Notes/Meeting/COG Echague]]
			- relates-to:: [[]]
			  tags::
			- Date: Jan. 10, 2024
			- Location: COG Echague
			- Participants: Czarimah, Keith Vincent, April, Hervison, Cherry Pagalilauan, Alex Gragasin, Mark Lester, Hanzon Jasper, Julpha Agustin, Dionisio Andres Jr., Kareen, Mark Pablo, Filipina Manuel, Allen Ingiaen, Ronalyn, Roxie Mae
			- #### Agenda: Worker's General Assembly
			- Minutes:
			- Decisions:
	- #### Tasks:
		-
- ### Time-blocker
	- #### Morning:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			- :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2023-11-17 Fri 11:18:44]
			  :END:
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
	- #### Lunch:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 12:00
			-
		- 12:30
			-
	- #### Afternoon:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 1:00
			-
		- 1:30
			-
		- 2:00
			-
		- 2:30
			-
		- 3:00
			-
		- 3:30
			-
		- 4:00
			-
		- 4:30
			-
		- 5:00
			-
		- 5:30
			-
	- #### Evening:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 6:00
			-
		- 6:30
			-
		- 7:00
			-
		- 7:30
			-
		- 8:00
			-
		- 8:30
			-
		- 9:00
			-
		- 9:30
			-
		- 10:00
			-
		- 10:30
			-
		- 11:00
			-
		- 11:30
			-